VM: Is a resource that uses software instead of a physical computer to run programs or apps. Each VM has its own operating system and functions separately, so you can have more than one VM per machine. Can be used to test applications in a safe, separate environment. Works by using software to simulate virtual hardware and run on a host machine. Reasons: (1) Test and develop software for a different OS (2) Run old or incompatible software (3) Handle potential malware safely
Why Debian?: Easier to install and configure, better for personal servers
Debian vs CentOS (Rocky): Debian is a lot easier to update than CentOS when a new version is released. Debian is more user-friendly and supports many libraries, filesystems and architecture. It also has more options for customisation. If you are a larger business CentOS offers more Enterprise features and excellent support for the Enterprise software (read more)
aptitude vs apt: Both are related to package management. Aptitude is a high-level package manager while APT is lower level which can be used by other higher level package managers. Aptitude is smarter and will automatically remove unused packages or suggest installation of dependent package. Apt will only do explicitly what it is told to do in the command line
APPArmor: (Application Armor) Linux security system that provides Mandatory Access Control (MAC) security. Allows the system admin to restrict the actions that processes (programs) can perform. It is included by default with Debian. Run aa-status to check if it is running
2 files with password rules: see files
LVM: (Logical Volume Manager) Allows us to easily manipulate the partitions or logical volume on a storage device. Provides a method of allocating space on mass-storage devices that is more flexible than conventional partitioning schemes to store volumes. In particular, a volume manager can concatenate, stripe together or otherwise combine partitions (or block devices in general) into larger virtual partitions that administrators can re-size or move, potentially without interrupting system use. Advantages of LVM: (1) Restrictions of physical devices are eliminated. (2) Performs Snapshots that allow the current state of a logical volume to be stored and make a backup copy of the file system. And it's also fault tolerant, so a drive is easily replaceable, should it ever fail
1 file with sudo strict rules: see file
UFW: (Uncomplicated Firewall) Interface to modify the firewall (a network security device that monitors and filters incoming and outgoing network traffic) of the device without compromising security. You use it to configure which ports to allow connections to and which ports to close. This is useful in conjunction with SSH, can set a specific port for it to work with
SSH: (Secure Shell) Authentication mechanism between a client and a host. It uses encryption techniques so that all communication between clients and hosts is done in encrypted form. User on Mac or Linux can use SSH the terminal to work on their server via SSH
cron: (crontab, short for chrono table) Program that enables the execution of scripts or software in an automatic way, at a certain date and time or at a specified interval. It is installed by default in Debian (we can check this with the `apt list cron command`)
2 files with monitoring.sh and cront: see files
: